Name: The French Revolution
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
Louis XIV was the king of France, whose descendents
were punished by his subjects for oppression.
And whose beautiful wife was given to luxury.
The king was guided by her - I am telling you the story.

The king would say, I can't take on the responsibility
of my kingdom.
It's too irksome. Any one of you can sort it out. 
I like to relax and lie about.
Though there's just one thing, for me to live lavishly,
you'll have to pay the taxes.

The minister would say, 'To serve his subjects is the duty 
of a king!'
And at this the king would say, 'Don't bother me
with remarks like that'.
He sorted out a group of men to be his brokers.
You can raise money through taxation and thereby be richer yourselves.
You can give me my share and the rest is yours to do
what you like with'.
Those chosen conferred and returned to the king.
'We'd like to be the brokers and the bourgeoisie'.
Thus a contract was made and a way of ruling began.

Each time the queen said, 'I want more money',
the taxes became heavier.
The subjects could not protest because they were 
afraid of torture.

Far away from the real sorrows of the people,
A beautiful palace was built in Versailles.
The news of the people's problems did not reach the king.
The king and queen ignored everything and everyone.
The palace was actually an indrapuri a palace 
for the king of gods.
The people were crying out, 'we are dying with the
heavy pressure of taxation.
Oh, God, save us from hunger!'

Then the king made an order,'I have been selected by God
and you should always obey me
The brokers are my representatives so pay them what they ask:
They are the branches of the tree. Everything that
the king says is law.
If you do not obey this law you will be severely punished.
According to Panini's grammar 'r' and 'l' are of the 
same phonetic quality,
So what is Regal is Legal, there is no doubt'.

One day the king said, 'I am suffering from gout
It is due to all this lying around'.
The queen replied, 'Don't worry about it, it'll be all
right in the morning'.

In the morning it was decided, so that the king might
move a bit, they should go hunting,
He should kill deer, birds, mice, hare anything in fact.
The king then made an order, 'All the farms of the people
Will be my hunting grounds'.
The people shall not drive out the rabbits and birds.

I myself alone shall kill them, while hunting'.
The subjects cried out, clapping their hands to their foreheads.
The ministers said, 'Our king is the most intelligent being'.

In this way, the subjects were brought to the edge of poverty --
The king and queen continued their snoring,
And having their stomachs filled with rich food.

Actually the king had no connection with his subjects.
He was never informed of people's oppression.
The king would declare,'The duty of a king is to cultivate
Only our fine arts - dancing and singing and the rest'.
In this way two generations spent lavishly.
The cloud of danger didn't appear until the time of Louis XVI.

My friends, listen to me, to the story of the Louis dynasty,
It is very difficult to tell who was responsible
and who should be punished.
The name of Louis XVI's queen was Antoinette.
She had no work to do but spent her time luxuriously.
She was the princess of Austria, and a foreigner:
After getting married to the king, she became the Chief queen.
You can't have a patriotic spirit unless you are a son of the soil.
She hated the people and thought of them as beasts
and did not care for them at all.

One day the king and queen were going along in their
horse drawn carriage,
And in the way, a son of a farmer was playing,
The carriage ran over him and the road was full of blood.
All the villagers hid themselves with fear.
The queen was angry and said, The blood of a farmer's son
has stained by carriage. Call the villagers'.
The wretched father, suppressing his grief, prayed to the
king with beseeching hands,
'Please, forgive me, I myself will wash away the blood. 
But please do not be angry with your subjects'.

The king replied, 'Our time is very valuable and your son's
life is not part of it.
Try to remember that you mustn't pass by the roads through
which the king and queen might go.
If the king's dog bites a subject, that man should pay
for the inconvenience to the dog'.
If the subjects stated their problems they would be punished
with imprisonment.
There was huge prison, called the Bastille,
where prisoners without number were kept.
In that prison many died from hunger and disease.
Everybody wanted the death of such a worthless king.

One day all the subjects lost patience and attacked the
palace of Versailles
The queen cried out, 'Why are all these people shouting?'
The king said that the people were hungry and that was 
why they were shouting.
The queen answered, 'We are not responsible for that'.

In that country a learned man was living called Rousseau,
He was really a searcher after truth and told everyone,
'To live like a man is our primary right.
Slavery and begging should not be a way of life.
We want equality, liberty and fraternity.
The society of man cannot follow the rule of the forest.'
At this they were all madly inspired.
'So we are free and not bondsmen!
We shall kill all the brokers and the bourgeoisie
those who have ruled us!'
All the men and women became revolutionaries
The court of the king began to tremble.
All the bourgeois and the courtiers were arrested.
And last of all the royal family were taken by the people.
Then the subjects of the kingdom began arguing
about the punishment.
They made a sharp instrument called the guillotine
And many of the culprits had their heads cut off by it.

Some of the subjects shouted loudly,'we shall take the queen 
first and cut her head.
She hasn't even the heart of a woman rather
the heart of a witch.
Though a foreigner she has become the queen.
She was not born in this country,
How can she love us with any affection?'

In the darkness of the prison the king and queen were weeping,
There was no one to hear their sorrows.

I say, the subjects of the land are the true kings of the land,
They pay money for its development but actually
they do not benefit.
There was no law and order. Everything depended on the 
word of the king.
The country was full of disorder -- a season of anarchy.
Murderers went free and innocent people were hanged.
Miscreants robbed indiscriminately and hid themselves 
in no time.
The police came too late, only to wield sticks at the
gathering crowd.
That was the real picture of France before the revolution.
How can I tell you vividly? I am not a historian.
But somehow the brokers and bourgeoisie were finished
And the Royal family lost its importance.

You hear me, my countrymen, I am an artist narrating stories
about the French Revolution.
If you like to live you should have such a spirit.
You should be united and keep good relations among yourselves.
Try to exchange ideas in all you do.
In this way the French Revolution was successful.
Only the people can destroy all the bad power of rulers.
From that time Democracy began.
From that time the development of the people started ordinary
people became important.
It is not inevitable that the son of a king will rule.

The General Election is coming and I am singing a song
of revolution. 
I call all of you to be united. I am finishing the story of the 
French Revolution now.
My name is Matilal Chitrakar of the village of Amdabad,
in the district of Midnapore.