Name: Gazi Pat
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
The victory of Gazi sahib, the incarnation of kindness --
Riding on the back of the tiger he has been the best rider.
There is no definite description of his form,
But he does have a topee and a long beard. 
And he has at least the following forms,
Saisatol, Gazi, and Badai Manic.
He's known as Lord Naryan among the Hindus and 
Pir among the Muslims.
He has appeared to receive worship from both the communities.

The tigers are big in size and their teeth look
like long white radishes.
They can grind stones into dust.
In his hand there is a club of the sal tree.
His beard is full and his face is very beautiful.
There are so many 'pirs' and they use torn quilts
to wrap themselves in
If we remember this 'pir' the tiger will not worry us.
Sometimes this 'pir' changes goats into tigers,
And this forest has been full of nine hundred thousand tigers.
There are so many customs in so many places to
worship this 'pir'.
But the popular custom is to offer a terracotta horse,
And a lamp with oil and a freshly killed chicken.
Then you will get a good result in the high court and will
Win your case; your life will go smoothly.
All the animals at home will be safe and your children as well
You will offer sugar, milk, sweetmeats, sirni and more,
And he will bless you so that you live well in this world.
No disease will attack you, you will never drown
All fear will go away, there is no doubt.

There is a beautiful village by the name of 'Sudrhan'
Where lived a lord whose name was Arjun.
And he married Arjuna's lovely young woman.
Under the name of Gazi they married.
They spent their time happily, though childless.
All the people hate such a couple.
One day Gazi came to them in the disguise of a fakir
And before them he started to say,
"Oh, King, close your eyes, I shall give you a fruit
Which the Queen will eat and so have a child.
You will offer 'sirni' in the name of Gazi.

If you invoke his name you will have a child.
After this, the fakir went away
And in due time the Queen gave birth to a child.
Having seen this child the king forgot to offer 'sirni'.
At this the Gazi became angry.
Suddenly one day the child died from a disease.
Both the king and queen wept very much.
To distract him from his sorrows he began to trade overseas.

And having done very well, he was returning home
When the Gazi baba sank his ship as it sailed in mid-ocean
And everything was lost in the unfathomable depths.
At the crucial moment he remembered the name of Gazi.
'I shall offer you sirni', and more, cows and calves for milk'.
The sinking ship rose to the top of the water to reach the shore.
There was an altar for Gazi, astana, and he offered 'sirni'
and the cows.
At this the dead child came to life.
After this the worship of Gazi spread everywhere.
Satya Narayan and Baba Gazi are the same.
Now you show your own forms
With conch shells and chokra, goda and lotus,
See this image, both king and queen show their regard.

There was a boatman, Ramjan, who made no offering,
And was caught by a tiger, and a crocodile at his feet.
Both the tiger and the crocodile snatched his body and life.
All the people of the land said the worst man is dying,
The famous miser is going down under the water.
And his story will be told forever in this world.
If you get the blessings of god you will get good results,
God himself will come to you when you give wholeheartedly.

Now I am finishing the picture story of Gazi.
And you both, of Hindu and Muslim belief, show your respect.