Name: Jagannath Pat
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
Men go to Orissa and buy rice to eat --
Now open your eyes and see Lord Jagannath:
On the right Balaram, in the middle his sister,
and on her left Kalachand himself.

Here is Lord Kalachand, the best of all,
With the power of his own name he has saved
the living creatures
Twelve houses round walled like red cloud
And the drums are beating in front of the Lion gate.
If you pour water on the tulsi plant, you will
have a place of virtue,
Your family will be saved and you will enter on great happiness.
At Rohini Kundal a crow died
A few virtuous crows have died and gone to Baikuntha,
One day Kashinath (Siva) made (observed) the ekadasi fast:

Parvati told him, "There is no rice in the house!"
Riding on his Dhenki, Narada Muni came to give prasad.
Sada Siva got up with folded hands to take it.
Siva says: "Gauri, if you don't take it, I shall go away!!"
And I'll show you where it's been touched by a dog!
There was a street dog, the Supreme Lord,
And the prasad touched by him was eaten by Siva;
Half of it dropped into his mouth,
And another small portion he placed upon his Jata
Snakes are your ornaments and you are the master
of the Yogic art
And you are eating food touched by a black dog,
have you no shame?
Saying Chi Chi Durga put her hands over her nose!

What have you done,oblivious Maheswar?
Siva says, "No Gauri, pleasure of my mind --
Creating illusory form. Jagannath appeared on the way"
Siva was overjoyed at getting His darshan --
Throwing aside his horn and drum, he danced.
In the rice market forty two kinds of curry are on sale,
And sold with a golden scale.
Rice, curry, and large sweets are for sale --
But in the market of Jagannath, there is a pot of stale rice water.

On Katwa ghat, Guru Chaitanya and Nitai
Are dancing, calling, "Hari Bol, Hari Bol!"
Jagai and Madhai were the demons of the Koli age --
Chaitanya is moving to spread the name of the Lord
Riding on his buffalo, King Jama weilds an iron club --
His soldiers Chanda and Banda go along with him.
Seizing a man by the hair,Jama threw him to the ground --
One the very day he risks nothing, that day a man dies.

Rathajatra took place on the second lunar day of Asharh:
Balaram, the friend of the world, went in the chariot.
The devotees pulled the chariot, crying "Hari, Hari!"
Save us, O Kalachand, and we will cross this world of play.