Name: Krishna Lila
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
Krishnaji was playing his flute beneath the tree,
And the heart of Radha forgot her housework and flew away.
Kanai appeared on the path with the flute in his hand,
At the sight of him, Radha bent her head low.

"At the sight of me you have covered up 
the treasure of many kings!
Nobody called me, Radhi, but here I am --
Now tell me, Radhi, how will you get away?"
"You are my nephew by relation, and I am your aunt
I dare you, shameless Kanai, you are joking with me!
Just let Ayan Ghosh come and you'll soon
see your mistake!
I'll make you sell all the cows you've got,
and bring you down a peg."

"The cows can go for all I care, I'll soon get some more
But where shall I get a beautiful girl like you?"
"Why do you let your heart melt over someone else's wife?
You tie a pot around your throat and throw yourself
into the pond!"
"Where shall I get a rope to tie the pot round my throat?
Your breasts are all that I need for a pot.
And hair on your head is the rope -- just the thing for tying,
Here are your waves of love, and that's the Jamuna river,
And all I want is to jump into that Jamuna."
"Don't keep calling me black, daughter of Brisha Bhanu
God has made me black so what can I do about it?
The Jamunas water is black, yet everybody drinks it,
And the world is cooled when rain falls from a black cloud.
If the Jamuna water is black, why do you fill your pot with it?
Why do you put Kajal on your precious eyes?"
But all these arguments had no effect, so Krishna
Said to the flute in his hand: "Become a black snake!"
As a black snake the flute was on the ground,
And coiling round the right foot, the snake bit the left foot
Of that proud daughter of the milkman.
Radha began to totter as she walked:
"Help! the black snake has bitten me, quick cure me!"
"But I am one man's son, and you are someone else's daughter
If a black snake has bitten you, what can I do about it?"

"I shall give you what you asked for, O Kanai,
The black snake has bitten me, please save me!"
From a distance Krishna then repeated magic spells:
"Now tell me truly, Radha, has the poison gone away?"

No poison now in Radha, the poison has gone down
Radha and Krishna were united of their own desire.
