Name: Ras Lila
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
On the orders of Krishna, Shyama played
the flute beneath the tree.
And when they heard it, all the Braja gopis
could not hold in their hearts.
Some dance, some sing, and some call out, "Hari"
The devotees are rolling about for sheer joy.
The Lord has tied on his turban, and on it
fixed a peacock's feather,
Round the top wound necklaces of various kinds of
Braja jasmin flowers,
And on top of all the jasmin flowers placed a bakul flower.
Golden anklets ring out on his feet.

The Lord went silently to Bidur's house,
And King Durjyodhan laughs, covering his mouth with a cloth.
"Are you at home, Bidur, are you at home?
I've been starving in your house since yesterday!
Inside the house were some of Bidur's hand sewn quilts
Bidur offered them to Krishna for a seat.

As he gave him the seat, Bidur looked at him,
Seeing him in the north of the house.
Vaisnava Bidur was lost in the rasa of Hari
He threw away the banana and gave Krishna the skin:
"Will I be born any more as a man like this?
I shall sing aloud the virtues of Krishna.

In Mathura, King Kangsa is a great Lord and Master:
Thirty three crores of gods came there, and 
five crores of sages.
Goddess Ganga came on her shark, and Yama on his buffalo,
Paban on his deer, the king of fire,
Gobinda on Garur, the Lord of Dwaraka,
On the swan came Brahma, the essence of the Four Vadas
On the bull came Mahadeva calling "Hari"
from his five mouths --
Panchanan sings of Tripurari (Krishna) with his five mouths.
The sun and moon rise in the temple of Kangsa.
And Lord Krishna went to the house of Devaki to be born.
Devaki was lying asleep on the bed:
Sitting at the head of the bed
the Lord Krishna showed her a dream.
"O mother Devaki Rai (sings the Patua), how
much longer are you going to sleep
While Lord Govinda wants a place in your womb!"
Lying dreaming, the Queen recounts this story:
"In my womb, Bapu there's no place for you!
I had six sons and Kangsa killed them all
In grief for my children, I shall weep my life away."
The Lord cant get a place by any means --
So he stole into the mother's womb in the form of a white fly.
On the eight lunar day of Bhadra Govinda was born
Here Devaki is giving the story to Deva Narayana.

Immediately after his birth, Vasudeva took the child in his arms:
Vasuki the snake from Patal made a canopy!!
Slowly they walked down to the Jamuna
The waves of Kalindi, the river of illusion,
grew bigger and bigger --
Lord Narayana slipped out of Vasudeva's arms into the river:
Weaving a web of illusion he began to float on a lotus leaf.
Not getting milk from his mother, the child chews its thumb,
While Vasudeva feels about him with his hands.
"Alas, what has happened, because of my cursed fate -- 
All these troubles at my age only to splash about!
Dayal Krishna seeing the weeping of Vasudeva,
Presses two hands on the water and climbs into his arms.

Vasudeva exchanged Krishna for the baby
in the house of Nanda,
And brought that daughter back to the lap of Devaki.
Crying "Boo! hoo!" the little girl began to weep
Snatching it away, Kangsa went to smash it on a stone,
But slipping out of his hands, goddess Durga
flew away to heaven!

In heaven, the daughter of Himalay addressed him thus:
What have you gained by killing me, O hero?
He who will kill you, will be born in Gokul."
Hearing the voice from the sky, Putana came
And made friends with Jasoda calling her "sakhi"
From her own lap she gave Sri Hari (Krishna)
into the lap of the ogress:
With one suck he drank so much milk,
And with the second suck he tore out the life of Putana.
Crying out "I've lost my breast!" Putana fell down:
Birat, the husband of Putana was beaten to death.
Aghasur and Bakasur were killed in the water by the Lord
Kesari the horse had his head wrenched off.
And Prabhu (Lord e. Krishna) broke the two tusks of
Pramila the elephant,
And Shandasur was killed by Damodar in the cowshed.
Tying the calfs (to trees) in the forest, he milked the cows.
Mother Josoda of good fortune was churning the milk
The two brothers Krishna and Balaram stole the butter;
Mother Josoda tied them up with the churning rope.
The Lord drank the skimmed milk and lay down to sleep:
Two-faced Saket got Krishna within reach
With a heavy stick in his left hand Krishna laid him low
Kanai (Krishna) took Kamala Basu on his lap,
He broke the Jamal arjuna trees with a sound like thunder
Gradually Janardan (= Arjuna) fell into the ground.
Happily Krishna has taken the pole
and the ropes for the lord hang down
The pots of milk are on his shoulders,
and Radhika walks along freely.

The night of the ras is over, when everybody gets a husband
(Now) all the sakhis are going to take their bath in the Jamuna
Stealing all the sakhis' clothes Govinda
Is sitting in the kadam tree, playing on his bamboo flute:
"O moon faced sakhis, now listen to me
Lift up both your hands and ask for your clothes back!"
Understanding their state of mind, Krishna
Threw back their clothes into one pair of hands after another.

Krishna built a boat and took Radhika across the river:
"You are very handsome, Kanai, but your boat is broken
Where shall I put my pots, and where shall I place my feet?"
"It's not a broken boat, Radha,
and the boatman's as strong as a dozen
I take elephants and horses, and how heavy are you?
I shall charge one anna per sakhi for the crossing,
But just to ferry you, I shall take your golden earing!
I shall take one cowrie each per sakhi
But to take you across, I shall ask for your bracelet!
In the guise of Barai Buri he demanded offerings
Barai came and brought the gifts of love.

To keep the honor of Radha, Deva Narayan (Krishna)
Took the form of Kali in the Nidhuban.
Ayan Ghosh stood and watched and wondered
The flower offered by Srimati is
on the feet of Lord Krishna.
The beautiful Murali jumped out in the Kalidaha river
And Krishna Thakurali was captured by the snake
A single snake so caught hold of the Lord
That the color of the Lord went blue from the burning poison.
Radha weeps, Jasoda weeps, beating their hands on their heads,
Throwing away the goods they are crying,
all the Braja sakhis weep.

In this moment of danger, the Lord remembered
the name of Garur
Garur came and honked and the snake went off to Patal
Madan Mohan made his ras in Brindaban;
In the forest sixteen thousand gopis made the Brindaban ras.
Krishna and gopis were dancing in pair after pair,
And in the forest Radha and Shyam played the flute.

Akrur came with his carriage to take Krishna away
Will the Lord go away, turning day into night?
Clutching the wheels of the carriage, all the gopis lay flat;
Who will drive the carriage and kill all the gopis?

"Shyam is going away, he looks behind --
what more do you see?
The link with Gokul is ending -- ask him to stay!"





