Name: Sahib Pat
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
Twelve sepoys are marching noisily with guns and
bayonets. What are the sepoys' names?
Than Singh, Man Singh, Harbar Ray, Garbarh Singh,
ricewater-eater Madan Singh, Chhuche Khan, Harle Khan, Moka.
Riding an elephant, seven sahibs are going to Rahati.
What are the seven sahibs' name?
Ripot, Sipot, Kalpot, Mejor, Sejor, Daktar, Kalektar.
These seven sahibs are going to Rahati.
Dandikini sahib of Podbasan -- what did he do? At
Sadagarghat he setup some businessmen; buying mulberry
leaf, he built up stocks of tussar cloth.
Balur Sahib of Ghatanimko what did he do? He made
title deeds of sale for salt. When the deeds were not realized,
he burnt the deeds for two and a half lakhs of rupees in the
fireplace, and wrote to Bilat. Getting the documents proved,
he brought fourteen roaring white soldiers and laid siege to
Tipu Baba's fort. They filled the place with noise and smoke.

Chati Sahib of Nimko -- what did he do? Because of the
obstacle to get speed in the wind, he cut off the ears and tail of
his horse. When his stomach got swollen with spleen, he
stabbed it with a knife. Such a mad devil of a sahib was he!
His manager was charitable Chandrasekhar Ghosh. After his
death many gifts were offered to the Ganges for the poor.

In Bata Bagri there was trouble from the dacoits. With the
help of Nitai Sigh Daroga Babu, the Bata jungle was occupied
and after catching the thieves, three report Books (file) were
filled up and sent to Hooghly, Midnapore and Calcutta.

Now the judgement of all these thieves is taking place.
Where? Calcutta High Court. Behind a screen, the Sahib's 
wives are enjoying the fun. Let's see what judgement the sahibs 
make on the thieves.

The sahibs make this judgement. Some will be impaled,
some will be hanged some will be sent to Daymal, others to
Harinbarim some will be placed under close observations, some 
will be eaten up by greyhounds, others by tigers -- these were
the judgements on the thieves.

Jugal and Kishor were the leaders of eighteen kahans of
dacoits. To the beating of drums, they hung the two 
brothers from a scaffold at Chatraganj-Naldanga-Patharghat.