Name: Srimanta Masan
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
Durga, Durga, Mother Tara, luxuriator in sorrows.
Unconquerable Kali of the South, the daughter of Nagendra!
Ten-armed Mother Chandi on guard in ten directions --
Her third eye glitters brightly in the center of her forehead,
And (her children) Lakshmi, Saraswati, Kartik and Ganesh.
The lion, the asura, Jaya and Bijaya, accompany the Mother.

One day she showed her kindness to Kalketu
She reveals a great treasure under a pomegranate tree.
And Kalketu got the treasure under the pomegranate tree.
Then he cut down the forests of Gujarat and established a town.
And now he comes bringing twelve (captives) courtiers
home to his house --
Phullara saw them, sitting at her cottage door.
The hero is leading the way, but he looks behind
To see whether the daughter of the old woman is
stealing his treasure --
That's the way your mind works, friend, that's
the way it works!
As if anyone becomes a thief of his own treasure.

For twelve years the merchant Dhanapati had been 
locked up in prison
And Srimanta was born in the womb of Khullana.
Srimanta was growing bigger everyday,
And he longed to find out where his father was.
One day he said: "Dear mother, I shall go and 
find my father".

"You are my only son, I shan't let you go!
But if you do, my darling, you must call on Durga"
When he thought of her, Durga appeared. 
And his mother placed Srimanta in the hands of Durga.

To the cry of "Victory to Mother Durga!" the boat set sail.
By some planet's influence, there was storm and 
tempest at Magara:
Sitting on a lotus a beautiful lady was swallowing an elephant;
Pressing on the oars, the boat sped swiftly by
And reached the Ratnamala ghat.

On the Ratnamala ghat a great drum was being beaten.
A constable and watchkeeper were whispering to each other
Whose kingdom do they belong to, plundering this one?
And never reporting anything good or bad to the king?

A royal bed had been spread out, on which
the Salban Raja sat --
They all went and stood with folded hands before him.
Srimanta thus addressed the Salban Raja:
"Within your realm I saw a lady on a lotus,
Who, though she was a woman, was swallowing an elephant!"
Hearing this, the Salban Raja said: "You show me this
And I shall give you half the kingdom and my daughter".
Srimanta set out taking the Salban Raja with him:
They made their appearance in the Sakha Jala Lake.
O Bhagavati, daughter of wisdom, what kind of
wisdom was that
To hide yourself amidst the lotuses?
Not being able to show her, Srimanta was quite put out:
Now another victim is taken to the execution ground
to have his head cut off.
Bound fast in chains, Srimanta began to weep.
And weeping he remembered Durga's name.

Assuming eighteen arms, the Mother appeared
at the execution ground,
And loosed the chains, which fell from Srimanta's hands.

"To whose house did you go, Mother, and 
who did your worship?
Indra became king after worshipping you!"
"Blessings on you, my son, blessings upon you,
You marry the daughter of the Salban Raja".

And he married with the blessings of Mother Durga,
And the worship of Mother Durga began in
country after, country.