Name: Swadhinata Song
Translation Source: McCutchion and Bhowmick

Text:
In 1947 all of us together got our Independence. We thought: now happy days have come and sorrows will leave our minds. But alas: our hearts weep to tell the sorrows of our minds!

After getting Independence, we go to Controlled Price Ration Shop and that's why we have to cry aloud to get rice and clothes. The Food Committee Babus get mighty self important, and that's why everybody goes in groups to Dealer-Babus house with their cards in their hands weeping: A quarter of rice and one length of Dhoti. 

But we have so many children and grandchildren in the house! Not getting food, they are weeping day and night. The daughter-in-law is sitting in the kitchen without any clothes on!

Alas, in this painful situation, so many cinemas have come into Bengal! The wind of the cinema-hall has lifted the veil. All the young women leave their husband at home and go off to the cinema, with specs on their noses and shoes on their feet (and the veil lifted up), some with their grandsons with a torch in their hands, laughing and joking.

Their clothes are dragging in the dust, they are just mad for cinema. Some by rickshaw, some by car, some by bullock cart -- all hurry along to see the new film. "Come and see the image of the cinema", the young women say -- "You will hear the man in the machine speaking, and see the man in the machine moving!"

O what talk of sweet and sorrowful secrets touches the hearts of the women!

Those who have not seen the cinema think: "Our lives are utterly wasted our heart's desire remains in our heart!"

Another says,"The old man's not come home -- he must have heard that I'll go to the cinema.

But the wind of independence has made me so I'm not afraid of anybody, man or woman!"

All the time pushing themselves forward, there is no telling who is the husband of whom!"

In the wind of independence, everybody has become a sati; all the old women and men over eighty have gone mad for cinema -- there's no keeping them at home! By the great virtue of the cinema in the present age, the owner picks up a pile of cash.

The blind and the lame, leaning on sticks, are on their way, man and women in groups -- all of to the cinema. Now they're going in -- how beautiful they look! All the fashionable types with fine hair what more can I say? These days all the girls get educated and call their fathers "Hello, my dear!"